# The necessity of equality and fairness in the tech ecosystem.

It is wrong always and everywhere developed to define personhood on the basis of gender. Personhood can be given up for a number of reasons which preclude gender from being a morally relevant reason to discriminate. It is because of this very philosophy that I'm allied to the righteous cause of equality in the tech ecosphere. The harsh treatment of just anybody with gender as basis puts us in line with the beasts.

There are morally relevant reasons to excuse one from a privilege (illness, state of mind, proneness to criminality) but gender/sex isn't one of them. This is self-evident as there are things that are in accordance with nature's disposition and pose no threat unlike the occasional shifts of tectonics and cyclone.

Talent is evenly distributed across persons and this is not reduced by gender nuances. To deny a person of talent an opportunity for no morally relevant reason is to rob them of their personhood, it is to accord them the shame of a moral outcast. There are women of indubitable talent and the manifestation of such talents is not precluded by their gender, it is a bifurcation fallacy to assert such. While there isn't much philosophy on the topic of gender equality, it is necessary that tech team membership is spread across genders. Like us privileged men, women can thrive in any sphere, shaping it to an ideal sector. 

I'd like to raise a daughter who is not afraid to assert her rights, in a world that would be made possible by my contributions to the cause of equality and one that is not at all of any deterring consequence. A world where a person is recognized for their worth and in which this worth is not veiled by their gender/sex. It is enough that the women in the world, in our lives are mistreated on account of nothing so profound in the tech ecosphere. 
I ally myself with these women who have decided to voice out to say that it is wrong to harshly treat them for their gender.

With the same prowess, I call out to the women in the world who find the engineering sphere as a potential niche to chase their dreams and do not regard what certain people say about limitations. There is no contradiction between being female and an engineer. Asserting that is equivalent to saying every quadilateral must be a rectangle. It is an error of unweighable proportions.


```java
public class CallForEquality {
 public static void main(String... args) {
  System.out.println("Hey, quit telling that sister that engineering isn't for females. Stop being a total douchebag or an insecure dweeb.");
 }
}
```