# Testing Express applications with Ava.js

Tests, the bane of most software engineers. I know it does seem like I am poisoning the well or employing a smear tactic but most software engineers would agree with me on this one. Not everybody likes writing tests even though sometimes the chances of a successful running with little to no bugs at deployment for an app is in direct proportion to successful test cases. 

A lot of us avoid tests usually because of the verbosity of the syntax of most test libraries. I mean why write wordy code to check if code would run as purposed? With that stupid question asked, think of this infinitely regressive paradox - `Do engineers who create test libraries write tests to check the workability of said test libraries?` - I'm guessing such question is valid only in a philosophical discourse intrinsic to the software development field. Forgive my derailment but I couldn't resist.

For most of us, tests should take the least share in wordiness and Ava.js is fortunately built to accommodate our laziness. To use the library, it needs to be installed using `npm` or `yarn`. To do this with `npm`, run the following command in your terminal:

```batch
npm install --save-dev express jsonwebtoken uuid ava
```

The above command installs `express` which would help spin up a server, `jsonwebtoken` for serialization of payload into base64 tokens, `uuid` for secure id generation and `ava` for well, what I said earlier. Okay okay, we need `ava` to run our tests.

This is what a simple test with Ava.js would look like:

```js
const test = require("ava").default;
const request = require("supertest");

const app = require("..");

const __PREFIX__ = "/api/v1";
// let id = "";

test("App is initialized", t => {
  t.not(app, null);
});

test("Users can register", async t => {
  const res = await request(app)
    .post(__PREFIX__ + "/create")
    .send({
      name: "Jeremias Silas",
      age: 28,
      role: "C.T.O",
      programming_languages: ["Java", "JavaScript", "Typescript", "Rust"]
    });
  // id = res.body.id;
  t.is(res.statusCode, 201);
});

test("App can deserialize user from token", async t => {
  const res1 = await request(app)
    .post(__PREFIX__ + "/create")
    .send({
      name: "Ladislao Brent",
      age: 28,
      role: "C.T.O",
      programming_languages: ["Java", "JavaScript", "Typescript", "Rust"]
    });
  const res2 = await request(app)
    .get(__PREFIX__ + "/deserialize")
    .set("Authorization", `Bearer ${res1.body.token}`);
  console.log(res2.body);
  t.is(res2.statusCode, 200);
});
```

Ava boasts of a very simple syntax. To run the test successfully, Ava needs to be configured and several caveats should be pointed out. To configure Ava, add the following section to the generated `package.json` file:

```json
"ava": {
   "require": ["babel-register"],
   "files": ["./src/tests/**/*.test.js"]
  }
```
 The `require` key takes a value of an array of strings which are plugins to be loaded prior to Ava running the tests. The `babel-register` plugin is necessary for Es6 style Javascript. `files` is an array of test files that Ava should run.

 An important caveat to note is that Ava doesn't run files with certain names or files residing in certain kinds of folders. Ava by default ignores files present in the `node_modules` folder. [Click here](https://github.com/avajs/ava/blob/main/docs/05-command-line.md) to see files that are automatically ignored by Ava.

 To run the tests, enter the following command in the terminal. Do this in the same location as the `package.json` file.

 ```batch
 ava --verbose
 ```

 Leveraging the configuration, the command runs the tests with Ava. This is practically simple and ideal for the lazy developer. 